[MUSIC]
In the previous videos, we discussed
metrics for regression problems.
And here,
we'll review classification metrics.
We will first talk about accuracy,
logarithmic loss, and
then get to area under a receiver
operating curve, and Cohen's Kappa.
And specifically Quadratic weighted Kappa.
Let's start by fixing the notation.
N will be the number of objects in our
dataset, L, the number of classes.
As before, y will stand for the target,
and y hat, for predictions.
If you see an expression in square
brackets, that is an indicator function.
It fields one if the expression
is true and zero if it's false.
Throughout the video,
we'll use two more terms hard labels or
hard predictions, and
soft labels or soft predictions.
Usually models output some kind of scores.
For example, probabilities for
an objects to belong to each class.
The scores can be written
as a vector of size L, and
I will refer to this vector
as to soft predictions.
Now in classification we are usually
asked to predict a label for
the object, do a hard prediction.
To do it, we usually find a maximum
value in the soft predictions, and
set class that corresponds to this
maximum score as our predicted label.
So hard label is
a function of soft labels,
it's usually arg max for
multi class tasks, but for
binary classification it can be
thought of as a thresholding function.
So we output label 1
when the soft score for
the class 1 is higher than the threshold,
and we output class 0 otherwise.
Let's start our journey
with the accuracy score.
Accuracy is the most straightforward
measure of classifiers quality.
It's a value between 0 and 1.
The higher, the better.
And it is equal to the fraction
of correctly classified objects.
To compute accuracy,
we need hard predictions.
We need to assign each
object a specific table.
Now, what is the best constant
to predict in case of accuracy?
Actually, there are a small
number of constants to try.
We can only assign a class label
to all the objects at once.
So what class should we assign?
Obviously, the most frequent one.
Then the number of correctly guessed
objects will be the highest.
But exactly because of that reason,
there is a caveat in interpreting
the values of the accuracy score.
Take a look at this example.
Say we have 10 cats and
90 dogs in our train set.
If we always predicted dog for
every object,
then the accuracy would be already 0.9.
And imagine you tell someone that your
classifier is correct 9 times out of 10.
The person would probably
think you have a nice model.
But in fact, your model just predicts
dog class no matter what input is.
So the problem is, that the base
line accuracy can be very high for
a data set, even 99%, and that makes
it hard to interpret the results.
Although accuracy score is very clean and
intuitive,
it turns out to be quite hard to optimize.
Accuracy also doesn't care how confident
the classifier is in the predictions,
and what soft predictions are.
It cares only about arg
max of soft predictions.
And thus, people sometimes prefer to
use different metrics that are first,
easier to optimize.
And second, these metrics work with
soft predictions, not hard ones.
One of such metrics is logarithmic loss.
It tries to make the classifier to
output two posterior probabilities for
their objects to be of a certain kind,
of a certain class.
A log loss is usually the reason
a little bit differently for binary and
multi class tasks.
For binary, it is assumed that y
hat is a number from 01 range,
and it is a probability of
an object to belong to class one.
So 1 minus y hat is the probability for
this object to be of class 0.
For multiclass tasks,
LogLoss is written in this form.
Here y hat ith is a vector of size L,
and its sum is exactly 1.
The elements are the probabilities
to belong to each of the classes.
Try to write this formula down for
L equals 2, and
you will see it is exactly
binary loss from above.
And finally, it should be mentioned
that to avoid in practice,
predictions are clipped to
be not from 0 to 1, but
from some small positive number to
1 minus some small positive number.
Okay, now let us analyze it a little bit.
Assume a target for an object is 0,
and here on the plot,
we see how the error will change if we
change our predictions from 0 to 1.
For comparison, we'll plot
absolute error with another color.
Logloss usually penalizes
completely wrong answers and
prefers to make a lot of small
mistakes to one but severer mistake.
Now, what is the best constant for
logarithmic loss?
It turns out that you need to set
predictions to the frequencies of each
class in the data set.
In our case, the frequencies for
the cat class is 0.1, and
it is 0.9 for class dog.
Then the best constant is
vector of those two values.
How do I, well how do I know that is so?
To prove it we should take a derivative
with the respect to constant alpha,
set it to 0, and
find alpha from this equation.
Okay, we've discussed accuracy and
log loss, now let's move on.
Take a look at the example.
We show ground truth target
value with color, and
the position of the point
shows the classifier score.
Recall that to compute accuracy score for
a binary task,
we usually take soft predictions
from our model and apply threshold.
We can see the prediction to be green
if the score is higher than 0.5 and
red if it's lower.
For this example the accuracy is 6 or
7, as we misclassified one red object.
But look, if the threshold was 0.7,
then all the objects would
be classified correctly.
So this is kind of motivation for
our next metric, Area Under Curve.
We shouldn't fix the threshold for it, but
this metric kind of tries all possible
ones and aggregates those scores.
So this metric doesn't really cares about
absolute values of the predictions.
But it depends only on
the order of the objects.
Actually, there are several ways AUC, or
this area under curve, can be explained.
The first one explains under what
curve we should compute area.
And the second explains
AUC as the probability of
object pairs to be correctly
ordered by our model.
We will see both
explanations in the moment.
So let's start with the first one.
So we need to calculate
an area under a curve.
What curve?
Let's construct it right now.
Once again, say we have six objects, and
their true label is shown with a color.
And the position of the dot shows
the classifier's predictions.
And for now we will use word positive
as synonym to belongs to the red class.
So positive side is on the left.
What we will do now, we'll go from left to
right, jump from one object to another.
And for
each we will calculate how many red and
green dots are there to the left,
to this object that we stand on.
The red dots we'll have a name for
them, true positives.
And for the green ones we'll
have name false positives.
So we will kind of compute
how many true positives and
false positives we see to the left
of the object we stand on.
Actually it's very simple,
we start from bottom left corner and
go up every time we see red point.
And right when we see a green one.
Let's see.
So we stand on the leftmost point first.
And it is red, or positive.
So we increase the number of
true positives and move up.
Next, we jump on the green point.
It is false positive, and so we go right.
Then two times up for two red points.
And finally two times right for
the last green point.
We finished in the top right corner.
And it always works like that.
We start from bottom left and
end up in top right corner when
we jump on the right most point.
By the way, the curve we've just built
is called Receiver Operating Curve or
ROC Curve.
And now we are ready to calculate
an area under this curve.
The area is seven and we need to normalize
it by the total plural area of the square.
So AUC is 7/9, cool.
Now what AUC will be for
the data set that can be separated
with a threshold,
like in our initial example?
Actually AUC will be 1,
maximum value of AUC.
So it works.
It doesn't need a threshold
to be specified and
it doesn't depend on absolute values.
Recall that we've never used absolute
values while constructing the curve.
Now in practice,
if you build such curve for
a huge data set in real classifier,
you would observe a picture like that.
Here curves for different classifiers
are shown with different colors.
The curves usually lie above
the dashed line which shows how
would the curve look like if
we made predictions at random.
So it kind of shows us a baseline.
And note that the area under
the dashed line is 0.5.
All right, we've seen that we can build
a curve and compute area under it.
There is another total different
explanation for the AUC.
Consider all pairs of objects,
such that one object is from red class and
another one is from green.
AUC is a probability that score for
the green one will be higher
than the score for the red one.
In other words, AUC is a fraction
of correctly ordered pairs.
You see in our example we have
two incorrectly ordered pairs and
nine pairs in total.
And then there are 7 correctly
ordered pairs and thus AUC is 7/9.
Exactly as we got before,
while computing area under the curve.
All right,
we've discussed how to compute AUC.
Now let's think what is the best
constant prediction for it.
In fact, AUC doesn't depend on
the exact values of the predictions.
So all constants will lead
to the same score and
this score will be around 0.5,
the baseline.
This is actually something
that people love about AUC.
It is clear what the baseline is.
Of course there are flaws in AUC,
every metric has some.
But still AUC is metric I usually use
when no one sets up another one for me.
All right, finally let's get
to the last metric to discuss,
Cohen's Kappa and it's derivatives.
Recall that if we always predict
the label of the most frequent class,
we can already get pretty high accuracy
score, and that can be misleading.
Actually in our example
all the models will fit,
will have a score somewhere
between 0.9 and 1.
So we can introduce a new metric such that
for an accuracy of 1 it would give us 1,
and for
the baseline accuracy it would output 0.
And of course,
baselines are going to be different for
every data,
not necessarily 0.9 or whatever.
It is also very similar to
what r squared does with MSE.
It informally saying is
kind of normalizes it.
So we do the same here.
And this is actually already
almost Cohen's Kappa.
In Cohen's Kappa we take
another value as the baseline.
We take the higher predictions for
the data set and shuffle them,
like randomly permute.
And then we calculate an accuracy for
these shuffled predictions.
And that will be our baseline.
Well to be precise, we permute and
calculate accuracies many times and
take, as the baseline, an average for
those computed accuracies.
In practice, of course,
we do not need to do any permutations.
This baseline score can
be computed analytically.
We need, first, to multiply the empirical
frequencies of our predictions and
grant those labels for
each class, and then sum them up.
For example,
if we assign 20 cat labels and
80 dog labels at random,
then the baseline accuracy
will be 0.2*0.1 + 0.8*0.9 = 0.74.
You can find more examples in actually.
Here I wanted to explain a nice way of
thinking about eliminator as a baseline.
We can also recall that error
is equal to 1 minus accuracy.
We could rewrite the formula as 1
minus model's error/baseline error.
It will still be Cohen's Kappa,
but now, it would be easier to
derive weighted Cohen's Kappa.
To explain weighted Kappa,
we first need to do a step aside, and
introduce weighted error.
See now we have cats,
dogs and tigers to classify.
And we are more or less okay if
we predict dog instead of cat.
But it's undesirable to predict cat or
dog if it's really a tiger.
So we're going to form
a weight matrix where
each cell contains The weight for
the mistake we might do.
In our case, we set error weight to be
ten times larger if we predict cat or
dog, but the ground truth label is tiger.
So with error weight matrix,
we can express our preference on
the errors that the classifier would make.
Now, to calculate weight and
error we need another matrix, confusion
matrix, for the classifier's prediction.
This matrix shows how our classifier
distributes the predictions over
the objects.
For example, the first column indicates
that four cats out of ten were recognized
correctly, two were classified as dogs and
four as tigers.
So to get a weighted error score,
we need to multiply these two matrices
element-wise and sum their results.
This formula needs a proper normalization
to make sure the quantity is between 0 and
1, but it doesn't matter for
our purposes, as the normalization
constant will anyway cancel.
And finally,
weighted kappa is calculated as 1-
weighted error / weighted baseline error.
In many cases, the weight matrices
are defined in a very simple way.
For example, for classification
problems with ordered labels.
Say you need to assign each
object a value from 1 to 3.
It can be, for instance,
a rating of how severe the disease is.
And it is not regression, since you do not
allow to output values to be somewhere
between the ratings and the ground truth
values also look more like labels,
not as numeric values to predict.
So such problems are usually treated
as classification problems, but
weight matrix is introduced to account for
order of the labels.
For example, weights can be linear, if we
predict two instead of one, we pay one.
If we predict three instead of of one,
we pay two.
Or the weights can be quadratic,
if we'll predict two instead of one,
we still pay one, but if we predict
three instead of one, we now pay for.
Depending on what weight matrix is used,
we get either linear weighted kappa or
quadratic weighted kappa.
The quadratic weighted kappa has been
used in several competitions on Kaggle.
It is usually explained as
inter-rater agreement coefficient,
how much the predictions of the model
agree with ground-truth raters.
Which is quite intuitive for
medicine applications,
how much the model agrees
with professional doctors.
Finally, in this video,
we've discussed classification matrix.
The accuracy, it is an essential
metric for classification.
But a simple model that predicts always
the same value can possibly have
a very high accuracy that makes
it hard to interpret this metric.
The score also depends on the threshold
we choose to convert soft
predictions to hard labels.
Logloss is another metric,
as opposed to accuracy it depends on soft
predictions rather than on hard labels.
And it forces the model to predict
probabilities of an object to belong
to each class.
AUC, area under receiver operating curve,
doesn't depend on the absolute values
predicted by the classifier, but
only considers the ordering of the object.
It also implicitly tries all the
thresholds to converge soft predictions to
hard labels, and thus removes the
dependence of the score on the threshold.
Finally, Cohen's Kappa fixes the baseline
for accuracy score to be zero.
In spirit it is very
similar to how R-squared
beta scales MSE value
to be easier explained.
If instead of accuracy we used weighted
accuracy, we would get weighted kappa.
Weighted kappa with quadratic weights
is called quadratic weighted kappa and
commonly used on Kaggle.
[MUSIC]